{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}
{\f12\froman\fcharset129\fprq2{\*\panose 02030600000101010101}Batang{\*\falt \'a8\'cfoUAA};}{\f36\froman\fcharset129\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}@Batang;}{\f37\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}
{\f38\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f40\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f41\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f42\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}
{\f43\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f44\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f45\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}{\f159\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Batang Western{\*\falt \'a8\'cfoUAA};}
{\f157\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Batang CE{\*\falt \'a8\'cfoUAA};}{\f158\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Batang Cyr{\*\falt \'a8\'cfoUAA};}{\f160\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Batang Greek{\*\falt \'a8\'cfoUAA};}
{\f161\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Batang Tur{\*\falt \'a8\'cfoUAA};}{\f164\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Batang Baltic{\*\falt \'a8\'cfoUAA};}{\f399\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 @Batang Western;}{\f397\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 @Batang CE;}
{\f398\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 @Batang Cyr;}{\f400\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 @Batang Greek;}{\f401\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 @Batang Tur;}{\f404\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 @Batang Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;
\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1042\loch\f0\hich\af0\dbch\af12\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1042 
\snext0 \styrsid16343829 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*
\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}{\*\cs15 \additive \ul\cf2 \sbasedon10 \styrsid16384054 Hyperlink;}}
{\*\rsidtbl \rsid11840\rsid31561\rsid81749\rsid1076892\rsid3154028\rsid3278240\rsid3867225\rsid4989886\rsid4997453\rsid5071592\rsid5334595\rsid6894662\rsid7496128\rsid7816730\rsid8277828\rsid10292107\rsid10571117\rsid11422160\rsid12458215\rsid12787573
\rsid13907598\rsid14842446\rsid15141854\rsid15366855\rsid15472651\rsid15949683\rsid16343829\rsid16384054\rsid16456258}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 10.0.6754;}{\info{\title DeckBuilder Specification, Draft Version 1}{\author kmd}{\operator kmd}
{\creatim\yr2005\mo7\dy8\hr15\min34}{\revtim\yr2005\mo7\dy15\hr16\min30}{\version15}{\edmins191}{\nofpages5}{\nofwords1300}{\nofchars7412}{\*\company CSE}{\nofcharsws8695}{\vern16391}}
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1800\dgvorigin1440\dghshow1\dgvshow1
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale75\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule\nobrkwrptbl\snaptogridincell\allowfieldendsel\wrppunct\asianbrkrule\rsidroot16343829 \fet0\sectd 
\linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}
{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid16343829 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1042\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af12\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1042 {\insrsid16343829 \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 
DeckBuilder Specification, Draft Version 1.}{\insrsid4989886 \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 2}{\insrsid16343829 \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 , 7-}{\insrsid4989886 \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 15}{\insrsid16343829 \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 -05, KMD and OKC

\par 
\par }{\b\insrsid16343829\charrsid16343829 \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 DeckBuilder 2.0}{\insrsid16343829 
\par 
\par \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 UI
\par 
\par \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 \hich\f0 The DeckBuilder UI consists of a MainPanel, an ApplicationPanel (part of which is the \'93\loch\f0 \hich\f0 toolbar\'94\hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 
), a MenuBar, a StatusBar, and various auxiliary dialogs (e.g. slide title dialog).  Not all of these will be addressed in this specification.
\par 
\par \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 The StatusBar comprises both the bottom status bar and the top title bar.  The bottom status bar displays the sl\hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 
ide count, slide title, max image size, image format, global (deck) feedback setting, and the local (slide) feedback setting. }{\insrsid12787573 \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 
 The top title bar displays the application name and the most recently opened or appended slide deck.}{\insrsid16343829 
\par }{\insrsid12787573 
\par \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 The MainPanel always displa\hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 ys the current slide\hich\f0 \rquote \loch\f0 s SlideContent.  The user can turn user or other ink on or off.
\par 
\par \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 \hich\f0 The ApplicationPanel holds the \'93\loch\f0 \hich\f0 toolbar\'94\loch\f0 \hich\f0  buttons, in addition to everything it is supposed to hold.  The \'93\loch\f0 \hich\f0 toolbar\'94\loch\f0 
 consists of three buttons to navigate the slide deck fo\hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 rward or backward and remove a slide.
\par 
\par \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 Feedback Mode
\par 
\par \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 A slide or deck can be made to support Feedback.  There are several predefined Feedback types.  A custom Feedback type can be used.  Feedback types are specified using xml.
\par 
\par \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 A Feedback}{\insrsid7816730 \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0  type}{\insrsid12787573 \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0  can be set f\hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 
or the entire deck.  Setting a global Feedback will override any slide Feedbacks already set.  Slides can have Feedback set individually, which will override the global Feedback for that one slide (until another global Feedback is selected).
\par 
\par }{\insrsid3867225 \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 Slides/SlideD\hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 ecks}{\insrsid12787573 
\par }{\insrsid3867225 
\par \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 Slides can be }{\insrsid7816730 \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 generated from PPT files}{\insrsid3867225 \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 
 or images.  Slide decks may be opened, appended, or inserted.  Slide decks that can be loaded (by any of the above methods) are ppt, csd, or rtd.  Images may be jpegs, bitmaps, gifs, tiffs, or pngs.  A deck, bot\hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 
h slides and images, can be saved as rtd or csd.  When a deck is imported into DeckBuilder, an image format for the slides (either wmf, emf, png, or jpeg) is set.  The max }{\insrsid7816730 \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 size}{\insrsid3867225 
\hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0  of the slides is set as well.  Slides that are larger than this are resampled u\hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 ntil }{\insrsid15949683 \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 they are below the limit.}{\insrsid3867225 
\par 
\par \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 DeckBuilder }{\insrsid7816730 \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 does not support}{\insrsid3867225 \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0  editing of slide or image content.  Decks can be inserted or append}{\insrsid15949683 
\hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 ed}{\insrsid3867225 \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 .  Images and image sets (all images of one type from a folder) can be inserted.  Images and slides can be removed, but not as\hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 
 a set or deck.  The title of any kind of slide may be change.  The order of slides (and image slides) can be shuffled, but not reordered explicitly.  
\par }{\insrsid15949683 
\par \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 Creating a CSD
\par 
\par }{\insrsid15366855 \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 When a ppt or rtd is opened, the conversion into the csd format is }{\insrsid7816730 \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 done}{\insrsid15366855 \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 .  Each slide }{\insrsid7816730 
\hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 is}{\insrsid15366855 \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 
 converted into the proper image format.  Anything that was invisible when last saved (say, instructor only notes) will not be part of the presentation when saved from DeckBuilder.  }{\insrsid7816730 \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 
Invisible content is content that is not displayed in PowerPoint due to th\hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 
e mode set on the shape using the PowerPoint Plugin.  The only way to generate Decks that contain instructor-only content is through the PowerPoint Plugin.  }{\insrsid15366855 \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 
If a csd is opened, restricted content may not show, but it will be kept as part of the presentatio\hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 n, and will behave properly in CP.}{\insrsid15949683 
\par }{\insrsid15366855 
\par }{\insrsid5334595 \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 csds can also be created with the PowerPoint Plugin directly from PowerPoint.  In this scenario, the user cannot specify the image type or the max slide size, so default values are used.}{\insrsid15366855 

\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid15366855 {\insrsid15366855 \page }{\b\insrsid15366855 \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 DeckBuilder 3}{\b\insrsid15366855\charrsid16343829 \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 .0}{
\insrsid15366855 
\par 
\par \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 UI
\par 
\par \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 The UI consists}{\insrsid11422160 \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0  of all the same parts as 2.0.\hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0   \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 As a whole, the Deck Builder UI will use the same 
\hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 structure \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 used in Classroom Presenter.}{\insrsid8277828 \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0   This will allow for a smoother transition to merging the Deck Builder\hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 
 functionality with Presenter.}{\insrsid11422160 
\par 
\par \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 T}{\insrsid15366855 \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 he toolbar will be a real toolbar and not simply buttons on the application\hich\f0 \rquote \loch\f0 s \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 
panel.  The forward and backward navigation buttons will remain.  Basic editing (of order or rendering options, not content) buttons will be added.  If feasible to have undo and redo functionality, they will be added as buttons to}{\insrsid11422160 
\hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0  the}{\insrsid15366855 \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0  toolbar.  Basic viewing o\hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 ptions will be added.  These should be unrestricted, instru}{\insrsid11422160 \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 
ctor, student and public views.
\par 
\par }{\insrsid10292107 \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 Ink rendering options will be available}{\insrsid11422160 \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0  \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 as \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 menu options and may be \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 too
\hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 lbar buttons\hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0  \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 if convenient}{\insrsid10292107 \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 .}{\insrsid15366855 
\par }{\insrsid10292107 
\par \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 It is currently unclear exactly how to present a TableOfContents to the users and i\hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 f Deck Buil}{\insrsid7816730 \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 der should even allow users to alter its structure}{
\insrsid10292107 \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 .  Depending on feasibility, a TOC view button might be useful.
\par 
\par \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 The menu and status bars need to be updated to correspond to new features.
\par 
\par \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 If it is decided that a TOC view should be available in Deck Builder, a TOCViewPanel should be add\hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 ed.
\par }{\insrsid8277828 
\par \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 When Deck \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 Builder \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 functionality \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 becomes part of Presenter\hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 
, it is important not to impose on the Presenter UI.  Most options \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 that will be available to the user can be \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 kept in an \loch\af0\dbch\af12\hich\f0 \'93\hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 Edit
\loch\af0\dbch\af12\hich\f0 \'94\hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0  menu item.  This will keep all the editing functionality of Deck\hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0  \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 Builder in on\hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 e place that will not inter
\hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 fe\hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 r\hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 e\hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0  with \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 an active presentation.  \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 
In addition, it will make it simple for the user to make alteration with Presenter before, during, or after a pres\hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 e\hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 ntation.  \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 No switching of \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 
role or mode \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 will be needed.
\par 
\par \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 The edit menu will not be available to all roles for all decks.  }{\insrsid11840 \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 
The instructor owns every deck in the workspace and will therefore be able to edit any deck.  Viewers should have the option of editing their own decks, and no others.  Dec\hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 
ks do not have a concept of ownership. They either belong to a presentation or not.  \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 V\hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 iew\hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 ers\hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0  \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 shoul
\hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 d be able to edit decks with their workspaces that a\hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 re not part of a presentation.\hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0   No changes made to a local deck should ever be overridden (wi
\hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 thout asking\hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0  or being explicitly told to\hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 )\hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0  by matching it with a deck in the presentation.}{\insrsid15366855 
\par }{\insrsid15472651 
\par \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 Because all the Deck Builder functionality can fit so well into the Presenter application, there would be no need to have a separate GUI for Deck Builder.
\par }{\insrsid11840 
\par }{\insrsid15366855 \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 Feedback Mode
\par 
\par }{\insrsid10292107 \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 3.0 will include no Feedback options.  Therefore, it needs to be removed from the menu and bottom status bar.}{\insrsid15366855 
\par 
\par \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 Slides/SlideDecks
\par 
\par }{\insrsid16384054 \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 It is unclear at this point what the final type of a slide deck will be.  However, the structure will be i\hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 dentical to that defined in the Classroom Presenter }{\field{\*\fldinst {
\insrsid16384054 \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0  HYPERLINK "SlideDecks.doc" }{\insrsid3278240 {\*\datafield 
00d0c9ea79f9bace118c8200aa004ba90b02000000010000000303000000000000c00000000000004600000f000000536c6964654465636b732e646f6300ffffadde000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000}}}{\fldrslt {\cs15\ul\cf2\insrsid16384054\charrsid16384054 
\hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 SlideDecks Spec}}}{\insrsid16384054 \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 .}{\insrsid15366855 
\par }{\insrsid14842446 
\par \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 Content will still be static}{\insrsid7816730 \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0  in}{\insrsid14842446 \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 
 version 3.0.  However, other editing options will be available that were not before.  The option to shuffle a deck will no \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 longer be available.  Instead users can arbitrarily reorder, insert, delete, or append slides.
\par 
\par }{\insrsid4989886 \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 The user can decide if }{\insrsid14842446 \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 Annotation Sheets }{\insrsid4989886 \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 will be \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 rendered}{\insrsid14842446 
\hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0  or not}{\insrsid4989886 \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 .  Annotation Sheets cannot be}{\insrsid14842446 \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0  added, edited or removed.}{\insrsid4997453 \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0   
\hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 If the \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 D\hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 eck \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 B\hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 uilder functionality is available in Classroom Presenter, the \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 
user will be able to alter Annotation Sheets \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 in accordance with the }{\field\flddirty{\*\fldinst {\insrsid4997453 \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0  HYPERLINK "SlideDecks.doc" }{\insrsid3154028 {\*\datafield 
00d0c9ea79f9bace118c8200aa004ba90b02000000010000000303000000000000c00000000000004600000f000000536c6964654465636b732e646f6300ffffadde000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000}}}{\fldrslt {\cs15\ul\cf2\insrsid4997453\charrsid16384054 
\hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 SlideDecks Spec}}}{\insrsid4997453 \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 .}{\insrsid14842446 
\par 
\par }{\insrsid5071592 \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 Images can be imported into a slide deck.  They can be inserted or appended.  When an image is imported, the user should have basic options available.  These options may include visibility tag (
\hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 e.g. \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 instructor only)\hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 
 or including/excluding the background image.  Once these options are selected, the image can be converted no different than a slide with just one image.  The max size will apply, re\hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 -\hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 s
\hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 ampling as\hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0  needed, and the image format will be set.  Because it becomes a regular slide, it has all the same \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 edit \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 options as a regular slide, 
\hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 such as \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 delete and reorder.}{\insrsid14842446 
\par }{\insrsid16384054 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid14842446 {\insrsid14842446 \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 Creating a CSD
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid15366855 {\insrsid14842446 
\par }{\insrsid16384054 \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 When opening a ppt in Deck Builder, the application will go slide by slide }{\insrsid7816730 \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 separating}{\insrsid16384054 \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 
 the slide into the necessary layers.  Layers }{\insrsid7816730 \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 generated}{\insrsid16384054 \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0  according to the restrictions }{\insrsid6894662 \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 
set through the usage of the PowerPoint Plugin }{\insrsid16384054 \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 at this point.}{\insrsid31561 \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 
  Each layer will be converted to the selected image type (except backgrounds which will be addressed later i\hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 n this spec).  }{\insrsid12458215 \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 
The max size (set by the user) will be per layer.  The size needs to be small enough that each layer can be sent using RTP.}{\insrsid16384054 
\par }{\insrsid31561 
\par \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 Background images are very different in nature than the other content layers.  Background layers }{\insrsid13907598 \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 will }{\insrsid31561 \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 be of a type more appropriate}{
\insrsid13907598 \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0  for an image, and will have their own size restriction since multiple slides might share one background.}{\insrsid31561 
\par }{\insrsid13907598 
\par \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 When bringing in a slide deck from ppt, the TOC}{\insrsid6894662 \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0  structure}{\insrsid13907598 \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0  is flat.
\par }{\insrsid16384054 
\par }{\insrsid14842446 \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 Significantly more work will need to be done with loading a deck in version 3.0.  Some form of indicator such as a progress bar or window will be added.}{\insrsid15366855 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid16343829 {\insrsid15949683 
\par }{\insrsid15472651 \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 Using Presenter to create a slide deck would happen in the exact same way.  The user would have the option to import a ppt\hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 .  \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 
The deck would be converted \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 by the same means mentioned above.  }{\insrsid81749 \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 Importing and co\hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 n\hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 verting \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 
a ppt file \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 will \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 be \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 available to all roles.  This could create \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 interesting deck matching scenarios \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 
that will need to be considered.}{\insrsid15472651 
\par }{\insrsid7496128 
\par }{\insrsid5334595 \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 The PowerPoint plugin will still be available.  Default layer size and image type values will be used.  It \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 will \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 
work the same as Deck Builder, going layer-by-layer for each slide.\hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0   \hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 It will need to be updated to conform to the new slide deck type.  Other than that, the plugin s\hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 h
\hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0 ould not\hich\af0\dbch\af12\loch\f0  change.}{\insrsid7496128 
\par }{\insrsid3154028\charrsid16343829 
\par }}